'Justice is the end of Government. It is the end of the civil society, It ever has been and ever will be pursued, until it be obtained or until liberty be lost in the pursuit.' In Srinivasiah (supra), it was held that an assumption that appears to be incorrect on the basis of the materials would be a sufficient ground for entertaining review.
5. The principle of review is settled proposition of law. It does not require elicitation of any principle or decision. Now, therefore, we may examine the ground agitated by Mr. Dasgupta. On the face of the record, it appears that the wife had initiated a proceeding under Section 498A read with Section 342 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) being Complaint Case No. 1628 C/1991 (Ext. 10 - II) before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Howrah. The husband filed a criminal revision case being Criminal Revision Case No. 403 of 1992 before this High Court for quashing the said proceeding under Section 498A IPC. At the intervention of the lawyers of the parties, the wife was brought back on the assurance that she would withdraw the criminal case under Section 498A IPC. It is not in dispute that the said proceeding under Section 498A IPC has not been withdrawn by the wife and has since been kept pending, though, however, the wife did not take any further steps in the said proceedings. This fact admittedly is on record and was not considered by this Court in the judgment and order under review. This ground would be sufficient to review the order if it is held that the failure of withdrawal of this complaint under Section 498A IPC would amount to cruelty.

6. Since the wife did not take any further steps, it seems and may be presumed that the allegations made against her husband were false. The making of false allegation against the spouse amounts to cruelty as was held in Vijaykumar Ramchandra Bhate (supra). The allegation under Section 498A IPC against a spouse is disgusting accusation. In the said decision, it was held that subsequent deletion or amendment of the pleadings would not absolve from treating the wife by the husband with cruelty by making earlier injurious reproaches and statements. The impact whereof continued to remain on record, as in the present case where the allegations are still on record and have not been withdrawn, though not proceeded with. This making of false allegation in itself is a cruelty and then the cruelty is further fueled by reason of keeping the allegations under Section 498A IPC alive and surviving despite having agreed to withdraw the same, by reason of non-withdrawal thereof till date.

9. It is true, as contended by Mr. Banerjee that an erroneous decision cannot be reviewed; when two views are possible, acceptance of one view cannot be revised; question of belief and disbelief cannot be intervened in a review. In this case the decision may be erroneous. But this erroneous decision was based on an error apparent on the face of the record in considering the existence of the question of cruelty on account of survival of the complaint under Section 498A IPC. The question of condonation of cruelty as contended by Mr. Banerjee does not find any support from the materials on record that the husband had ever condoned the cruelty. As soon the suit is filed on the ground of cruelty, there is no question of condonation of cruelty. The very pendency and survival of the complaint case under Section 498A IPC till the decision under review itself is a cruelty surviving which need no revival by fresh complaint or otherwise. Despite being agreed but the same having not been withdrawn, the wife's failure to withdraw the same itself revives the cruelty continuous until withdrawn. It is admitted that this complaint has not been withdrawn till today. Therefore, the principle of condonation of cruelty as was sought to be urged by Mr. Banerjee does not find any support from the materials on record. Therefore, the decision laid down in Krishna Sarbadhikary (supra) cited by Mr. Banerjee has no manner of application in the present case.

11. That thus the accused has committed offence under Section 498A and under Section 342 IPC" [PB-II, pp. 14-16]
15. This allegation was supported by the wife in her examination-in-chief (PB-I, p. 135) namely "It is correct to say that in December, 1991,1 filed a case against my husband under Section 498A of IPC as my husband used to assault me very often." In her cross-examination (PB-I, p. 138), she said "I admit herein that all statements made in my application under Section 498A IPC and also in my application for recovery of my children in Criminal Courts are all correct and true." She further said in her cross-examination (PB-I, p. 139) that "I filed a case under Section 498A IPC against my husband for which any husband submitted an application in the High Court for quashing the said proceeding under Section 498A of IPC and that proceeding is still pending in the Hon'ble High Court. It is correct to say that there is in fact no petition of compromise of 498A IPC in between myself and my husband." At page 141 (PB-I) in her cross-examination she stated, "Fact that I filed a criminal case under Section 498A IPC against my husband. My lawyer drafted the petition and designed it according to his estimation under Section 498A IPC. I shall not examine that lawyer. Of late I have come to know that my case under Section 498A IPC against my husband is now alive."